Guide for agent -> worker transition. (#10365)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/guides/upgrade-guide-agents-to-workers.md

    
    Prefect will now automatically detect flows in your repo and provide a [wizard](/#step-5-deploy-the-flow) 🧙 to guide you through setting required attributes for your deployments.

2. **Configuring remote flow code storage:** 
    
    storage blocks --> [pull action](/concepts/deployments/#the-pull-action)
    
    And you can still use an existing [storage block as your pull action](/guides/deployment/storage-guide/)!  The more general pull steps specification allows for explicit customization of the job that defines each run (for example, by adding an additional step that sets a working directory).

3. **Configuring flow run infrastructure:** 
    
    run-infrastructure blocks --> [typed work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types) 
    
    Default infra config is now set on the typed work pool, and can be overwritten by both individual deployments or individual runs.

4. **Managing multiple deployments:**
    
    Create and/or update many deployments at once through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#working-with-multiple-deployments) file.

> ## What's the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's similar
```

Reviewer: Most of these things are similar, but not the same

## How to upgrade quickly

If you have existing deployments that use infrastructure blocks, you can quickly upgrade them to be compatible with workers by following these steps:

1. [Create a work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#work-pool-configuration) of the same type as the infrastructure block you are currently using.

    1. Any work pool infrastructure type other than `Prefect Agent` will work.
    2. Referencing the configuration you've set on the infrastructure block, set similar flow run infrastructure configuration on the work pool.

2. [Start a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker) to poll this work pool. You should see the command to start the worker as soon as you save your new work pool. 

    ```
    prefect worker start -p <work pool name>
    ```

3. [Deploy your flow](/#step-5-deploy-the-flow) guided by the deployment creation wizard:

>     !!! warning "Always run `prefect deploy` commands from the **root** level of your repo!"

Author: Could I get your eyes on the wording of this warning and note block?

@discdiver

>         With agents you might have had multiple `deployment.yaml` files, but under worker deployment patterns, each repo will have a single `prefect.yaml` file located at the **root** of the repo that contains a [list of each deployment](/concepts/deployments/#working-with-multiple-deployments) for all flows in that repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        With agents you might have had multiple `deployment.yaml` files, but under worker deployment patterns, each repo will have a single `prefect.yaml` file located at the **root** of the repo that contains [deployment configuration](/concepts/deployments/#working-with-multiple-deployments) for all flows in that repo.
```

# How to Upgrade from Agents to Workers

> Upgrading from agents to workers opens the door to a host of enhanced features. It's important to understand that some of these features are interconnected. For instance, to define your deployments in a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file, you must [create a Work Pool](/concepts/work-pools/#work-pool-configuration) and [start a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker). This guide provides a comprehensive overview of the changes you'll encounter when upgrading from agents to workers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrading from agents to workers significantly enhances the experience of deploying flows, especially with regards to specifying its infrastructure and runtime environment. This guide provides an overview of the differences between agents to workers and describes how to upgrade.
```

## Enhancements

> **Agents to Workers**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Agents to workers
```

> - Improved visibility into the status of the worker such as when workers were started and when they last polled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Improved visibility into the status of each worker, including when a worker was started and when it last polled.
```

- Better handling of race conditions for high availability use cases.

> **Infra Blocks to Work Pools**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Agent Infra Blocks to Work Pools**
```

> - Work pools expose [`job_configuration`](/concepts/work-pools/#base-job-template) that enable an unprecedented level of customization and governance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Work pools expose a [base job template](/concepts/work-pools/#base-job-template) that enables an unprecedented level of customization and governance over workers in that pool.
```

- New [push work pools](/guides/deployment/push-work-pools/) (beta) allow for flow execution without the need to host a worker.

> **New `prefect.yaml` file for managing multiple deployments**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New `prefect.yaml` file for managing multiple deployments
```

> - Its easier than before to define many deployments en mass through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Its easier than before to define many multiple deployments at once through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.
```

- Prefect provides [deployment actions](/concepts/deployments/#deployment-actions) that allow you to automatically build images for your flows.
- [Templating](/concepts/deployments/#templating-options) enables [dryer deployment definitions](/concepts/deployments/#reusing-configuration-across-deployments).
- You get a [wizard now](/#step-5-deploy-the-flow)! 🧙

----------

> ## What's changing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What's different
```

1. **Command to build deployments:** 
    
    `prefect deployment build <entrypoint>` --> [`prefect deploy`](/concepts/deployments/#deployment-declaration-reference) 
    
    Prefect will now automatically detect flows in your repo and provide a [wizard](/#step-5-deploy-the-flow) 🧙 to guide you through setting required attributes for your deployments.

2. **Configuring remote flow code storage:** 
    
    storage blocs --> [pull action](/concepts/deployments/#the-pull-action)
    
    Though you can still use an existing [storage block as your pull action](/guides/deployment/storage-guide/)!

3. **Configuring flow run infrastructure:** 
    
    run-infrastructure blocks --> [typed work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types) 
    
    Infra config is now set on the typed Work Pool.

4. **Managing multiple deployments:**
    

>     Create and/or update many deployments en mass through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Create and/or update many deployments at once through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.
```

> ## What stays the same

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What's the same
```

- Storage blocks can be set as the pull action in a `prefect.yaml` file.
- Infra blocks have similar configuration fields as typed work pools.
- Deployment-level infra-overrides operate in much the same way. 

    `infra_override` -> [`job_variable`](/concepts/deployments/#work-pool-fields)

- The process for starting an agent and [starting a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker) in your environment are virtually identical.
    
    `prefect agent start <work pool>` --> `prefect worker start <work pool>`

## How to get started quickly

If you have a deployment with a storage block and infra block, here's how to quickly upgrade it to use Prefect's new features:

> 1. [Create a work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#work-pool-configuration) of type that matches whichever run-infrastructure block you are currently using. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Create a work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#work-pool-configuration) of the same type as the infrastructure block you are currently using.
```

>     1. Any work pool infrastructure type aside from `Prefect Agent` should work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Any work pool infrastructure type other than `Prefect Agent` will work.
```

    2. Referencing the configurations you've set on the infrastructure block, set similar flow run infrastructure configurations on the work pool.

2. [Start a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker) to poll this work pool. You should see the command to start the worker as soon as you save your new work pool. 

    !!! Tip "Process for starting a worker is very similar to the process for starting a worker."

>         Notice the command to start a worker is very similar to the command to start an agent. If you previously used terraform, a helm chart, or other infra as code method to start your agent, you should be able to continue using it for the worker provided the word `agent` is changed to `worker`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Notice the command to start a worker is very similar to the command to start an agent. If you previously used terraform, a helm chart, or other infrastructure-as-code method to start an agent, you should be able to continue using it for a worker, provided the word `agent` is changed to `worker`.
```

# How to Upgrade from Agents to Workers

Upgrading from agents to workers significantly enhances the experience of deploying flows, especially with regards to specifying its infrastructure and runtime environment. This guide provides an overview of the differences between agents and workers and describes how to upgrade.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A worker is the fusion of an [agent](/concepts/agents/) with an [infrastructure block](/concepts/infrastructure/). Like agents, they poll a work pool for submitted flow runs that are scheduled to start. Like infrastructure blocks, they are typed - they work with only one kind of infrastructure and they specify the configuration of that infrastructure.

Accordingly, workers are not a drop in replacement for agents. Using workers requires deploying flows differently. In particular, deploying a flow with an agent does not involve specifying an infrastructure block. Instead, infrastructure configuration is specified on the [work pool](/concepts/work-pools/) and passed to each worker that polls work from that pool.

```

- You can use a [wizard now](/#step-5-deploy-the-flow)! 🧙

----------

## What's different

1. **Command to build deployments:** 
    
    `prefect deployment build <entrypoint>` --> [`prefect deploy`](/concepts/deployments/#deployment-declaration-reference) 
    
    Prefect will now automatically detect flows in your repo and provide a [wizard](/#step-5-deploy-the-flow) 🧙 to guide you through setting required attributes for your deployments.

2. **Configuring remote flow code storage:** 
    
    storage blocs --> [pull action](/concepts/deployments/#the-pull-action)
    
    Though you can still use an existing [storage block as your pull action](/guides/deployment/storage-guide/)!

3. **Configuring flow run infrastructure:** 
    
    run-infrastructure blocks --> [typed work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types) 
    
    Infra config is now set on the typed work pool.

4. **Managing multiple deployments:**
    
    Create and/or update many deployments at once through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.

## What's the same

- Storage blocks can be set as the pull action in a `prefect.yaml` file.

> - Infra blocks have similar configuration fields as typed work pools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Infrastructure blocks have similar configuration fields as typed work pools.
```

- Deployment-level infra-overrides operate in much the same way. 

    `infra_override` -> [`job_variable`](/concepts/deployments/#work-pool-fields)

- The process for starting an agent and [starting a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker) in your environment are virtually identical.
    
    `prefect agent start <work pool>` --> `prefect worker start <work pool>`

## How to get started quickly

If you have a deployment with a storage block and infra block, here's how to quickly upgrade it to use Prefect's new features:

1. [Create a work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#work-pool-configuration) of the same type as the infrastructure block you are currently using.

    1. Any work pool infrastructure type other than `Prefect Agent` will work.

>     2. Referencing the configurations you've set on the infrastructure block, set similar flow run infrastructure configurations on the work pool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Referencing the configuration you've set on the infrastructure block, set similar flow run infrastructure configuration on the work pool.
```

2. **Configuring remote flow code storage:** 
    
    storage blocs --> [pull action](/concepts/deployments/#the-pull-action)
    
    Though you can still use an existing [storage block as your pull action](/guides/deployment/storage-guide/)!

3. **Configuring flow run infrastructure:** 
    
    run-infrastructure blocks --> [typed work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types) 
    
    Infra config is now set on the typed work pool.

4. **Managing multiple deployments:**
    
    Create and/or update many deployments at once through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.

## What's the same

- Storage blocks can be set as the pull action in a `prefect.yaml` file.
- Infrastructure blocks have similar configuration fields as typed work pools.
- Deployment-level infra-overrides operate in much the same way. 

    `infra_override` -> [`job_variable`](/concepts/deployments/#work-pool-fields)

- The process for starting an agent and [starting a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker) in your environment are virtually identical.
    
    `prefect agent start <work pool>` --> `prefect worker start <work pool>`

## How to get started quickly

> If you have a deployment with a storage block and infra block, here's how to quickly upgrade it to use Prefect's new features:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have existing deployments that use infrastructure blocks, you can quickly upgrade them to be compatible with workers by:
```

# How to Upgrade from Agents to Workers

Upgrading from agents to workers significantly enhances the experience of deploying flows. It simplifies the specification of each flow's infrastructure and runtime environment. 

> A worker is the fusion of an [agent](/concepts/agents/) with an [infrastructure block](/concepts/infrastructure/). Like agents, they poll a work pool for submitted flow runs that are scheduled to start. Like infrastructure blocks, they are typed - they work with only one kind of infrastructure and they specify the configuration of that infrastructure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A worker is the fusion of an [agent](/concepts/agents/) with an [infrastructure block](/concepts/infrastructure/). Like agents, workers poll a work pool for flow runs that are scheduled to start. Like infrastructure blocks, workers are typed - they work with only one kind of infrastructure and they specify the default configuration for jobs submitted to that infrastructure.
```

> Accordingly, workers are not a drop in replacement for agents. **Using workers requires deploying flows differently.** In particular, deploying a flow with an worker does not involve specifying an infrastructure block. Instead, infrastructure configuration is specified on the [work pool](/concepts/work-pools/) and passed to each worker that polls work from that pool.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Accordingly, workers are not a drop-in replacement for agents. **Using workers requires deploying flows differently.** In particular, deploying a flow with a worker does not involve specifying an infrastructure block. Instead, infrastructure configuration is specified on the [work pool](/concepts/work-pools/) and passed to each worker that polls work from that pool.
```

This guide provides an overview of the differences between agents and workers. It also describes how to upgrade from agents to workers in just a few quick steps.

## Enhancements

### Agents to workers

- Improved visibility into the status of each worker, including when a worker was started and when it last polled.
- Better handling of race conditions for high availability use cases.

### Agent infrastructure blocks to work pools

> - Work pools expose a [base job template](/concepts/work-pools/#base-job-template) that enables an unprecedented level of customization and governance over workers in that pool.

Reviewer 3: "...and governance" 💯

> - [Push work pools](/guides/deployment/push-work-pools/) allow for flow execution without the need to host a worker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Push work pools](/guides/deployment/push-work-pools/) allow for flow execution without the need to host a worker at all.
```

### New `prefect.yaml` file for managing multiple deployments

- More easily define many multiple deployments at once through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.
- Prefect provides [deployment actions](/concepts/deployments/#deployment-actions) that allow you to automatically build images for your flows.
- [Templating](/concepts/deployments/#templating-options) enables [dryer deployment definitions](/concepts/deployments/#reusing-configuration-across-deployments).
- You can use a [wizard now](/#step-5-deploy-the-flow)! 🧙

----------

## What's different

1. **Command to build deployments:** 
    
    `prefect deployment build <entrypoint>` --> [`prefect deploy`](/concepts/deployments/#deployment-declaration-reference) 
    
    Prefect will now automatically detect flows in your repo and provide a [wizard](/#step-5-deploy-the-flow) 🧙 to guide you through setting required attributes for your deployments.

2. **Configuring remote flow code storage:** 
    

>     storage blocs --> [pull action](/concepts/deployments/#the-pull-action)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    storage blocks --> [pull action](/concepts/deployments/#the-pull-action)
```

>     Though you can still use an existing [storage block as your pull action](/guides/deployment/storage-guide/)!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    And you can still use an existing [storage block as your pull action](/guides/deployment/storage-guide/)!  The more general pull steps specification allows for explicit customization of the job that defines each run (for example, by adding an additional step that sets a working directory).
```

3. **Configuring flow run infrastructure:** 
    
    run-infrastructure blocks --> [typed work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types) 
    

>     Infra config is now set on the typed work pool.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Default infra config is now set on the typed work pool, and can be overwritten by both individual deployments or individual runs.
```

4. **Managing multiple deployments:**
    
    Create and/or update many deployments at once through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.

## What's the same

- Storage blocks can be set as the pull action in a `prefect.yaml` file.
- Infrastructure blocks have similar configuration fields as typed work pools.
- Deployment-level infra-overrides operate in much the same way. 

    `infra_override` -> [`job_variable`](/concepts/deployments/#work-pool-fields)

- The process for starting an agent and [starting a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker) in your environment are virtually identical.
    
    `prefect agent start <work pool>` --> `prefect worker start <work pool>`

## How to upgrade quickly

> If you have existing deployments that use infrastructure blocks, you can quickly upgrade them to be compatible with workers by:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have existing deployments that use infrastructure blocks, you can quickly upgrade them to be compatible with workers by following these steps:
```
(added this to match the voice of the steps)

1. [Create a work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#work-pool-configuration) of the same type as the infrastructure block you are currently using.

    1. Any work pool infrastructure type other than `Prefect Agent` will work.
    2. Referencing the configuration you've set on the infrastructure block, set similar flow run infrastructure configuration on the work pool.

2. [Start a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker) to poll this work pool. You should see the command to start the worker as soon as you save your new work pool. 

    ```
    prefect worker start -p [work pool name]
    ```

    !!! Tip "Process for starting a worker is very similar to the process for starting an agent"

>         Notice the command to start a worker is very similar to the command to start an agent. If you previously used terraform, a helm chart, or other infrastructure-as-code method to start an agent, you should be able to continue using it for a worker, provided the word `agent` is changed to `worker`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Notice the command to start a worker is very similar to the command to start an agent. If you previously used terraform, a helm chart, or other infrastructure-as-code methods to start an agent, you should be able to continue using it for a worker, provided all uses of `agent` are changed to `worker`.
```

3. [Deploy your flow](/concepts/deployments/#deployment-mechanics):
    ```bash
    prefect deploy
    ```

> 4. In your prefect.yaml file, configure a [pull action](/guides/deployment/storage-guide/) referencing whatever configuration you used as your storage block.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. In your `prefect.yaml` file, configure a [pull action](/guides/deployment/storage-guide/) referencing whatever configuration you used as your storage block.
```

3. **Configuring flow run infrastructure:** 
    
    run-infrastructure blocks --> [typed work pool](/concepts/work-pools/#worker-types) 
    
    Default infra config is now set on the typed work pool, and can be overwritten by both individual deployments or individual runs.

4. **Managing multiple deployments:**
    
    Create and/or update many deployments at once through a [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/deployments/#managing-deployments) file.

## What's the same

- Storage blocks can be set as the pull action in a `prefect.yaml` file.
- Infrastructure blocks have similar configuration fields as typed work pools.
- Deployment-level infra-overrides operate in much the same way. 

    `infra_override` -> [`job_variable`](/concepts/deployments/#work-pool-fields)

- The process for starting an agent and [starting a worker](/concepts/work-pools/#starting-a-worker) in your environment are virtually identical.
    

>     `prefect agent start <work pool>` --> `prefect worker start <work pool>`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    `prefect agent start --pool <work pool name>` --> `prefect worker start --pool <work pool name>`
```
